README.md, before:

# Cross Project Asset Library

A production-ready Unity Editor extension that provides a personal cross-project asset library, allowing developers to quickly import frequently used assets without manual folder navigation.

**Package ID**: `com.crossproject.assetlibrary`
**Version**: 1.1.0
**Minimum Unity**: 2020.3 LTS

## Core Features

### Asset Management
- **Add Assets**: Right-click any asset in Unity → "Add to Asset Library" with metadata (group, tags, description, custom thumbnails)
- **Browse Library**: Open library window (Window → Asset Library) to view all saved assets with color-coded type indicators
- **Multi-Select**: Ctrl+Click to select multiple assets for batch operations
- **Batch Import**: Import multiple selected assets in one operation
- **Batch Add**: Drag-and-drop multiple assets from Project window to library

### Search & Filtering
- **Name Search**: Real-time text search for assets (case-insensitive)
- **Type Filter**: Filter by asset type (Textures, Prefabs, Scripts, Materials, Audio, Models, Animations, Shaders, and more)
- **Tag Filter**: Filter by tags (supports multi-tag filtering)
- **Group Filter**: Organize and filter by category/group
- **Combined Filtering**: Use multiple filters simultaneously for precise asset discovery

### Asset Editing & Preview
- **Edit Metadata**: Modify asset properties (name, tags, group, description) directly within library
- **Asset Preview Window**:
  - Texture preview with zoom and rotation controls
  - Audio clip playback with visualization
  - 3D mesh preview with rotation/zoom
  - Text file preview with syntax highlighting
  - Metadata panel display
- **Asset Properties Dialog**: View complete asset information (ID, path, size, date added, etc.)
- **Context Menu Options**:
  - Open with system default application
  - Export asset to folder
  - Copy asset path to clipboard
  - Reveal library file in file explorer
  - Delete asset from library
  - Show properties

### Library Management
- **Create Libraries**: Create new .unitylib files via dialog wizard
- **Portable Format**: Libraries stored as `.unitylib` files (ZIP-based) for easy backup and sharing
- **Recent Libraries**: Quick-access to recently used libraries with metadata (asset count, last modified)
- **File System Monitoring**: Auto-reload detection when library files change externally
- **Library Validation**: Auto-validates paths, removes deleted libraries from history

### Import & Integration
- **Smart Import**: Import button with automatic destination folder selection
- **Drag-and-Drop Import**: Drag assets from library window directly into Project window
- **Duplicate Handling**: Automatically handles filename conflicts during import
- **Default Location**: Imports to `Assets/Imported/` folder (customizable)
- **Asset Database Integration**: Automatic refresh after import

## Installation

Choose one of the three installation methods:

### Method 1: Git URL (Recommended for Development)

Add to your Unity project's `Packages/manifest.json`:

**Latest version:**
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "com.crossproject.assetlibrary": "https://github.com/AFreoN/asset-library.git"
  }
}
```

**Specific version:**
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "com.crossproject.assetlibrary": "https://github.com/AFreoN/asset-library.git#v1.0.0"
  }
}
```

### Method 2: Download and Extract

1. Go to [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/AFreoN/asset-library/releases)
2. Download the latest source code (ZIP)
3. Extract to your project's `Assets/Packages/com.crossproject.assetlibrary/` folder

### Method 3: Clone Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AFreoN/asset-library.git Assets/Packages/com.crossproject.assetlibrary
```

### After Installation

1. Restart Unity
2. Access the tool via `Window → Asset Library` menu
3. You're ready to start managing your asset library!

## Quick Start

### Creating a New Library

1. Go to `Window → Asset Library`
2. Click "Create New Library"
3. Enter a name and choose a save location
4. The library will be created as a `.unitylib` file

### Adding Assets to Your Library

1. In your Project window, right-click on any asset
2. Select "Add to Asset Library"
3. Fill in the metadata:
   - **Group/Category**: Organize assets logically (e.g., "UI Elements", "Player Systems")
   - **Tags**: Add comma-separated tags for easy filtering (e.g., "ui, pixel-art")
   - **Description**: Optional description for the asset
   - **Custom Thumbnail**: For non-image assets, optionally provide a preview image
4. Select the target library file
5. Click "Add to Library"

### Browsing and Importing Assets

1. Open `Window → Asset Library`
2. Click "Browse" and select a `.unitylib` file
3. Use the search bar to find assets by name
4. Filter by:
   - **Type**: Asset type (Texture, Prefab, Script, etc.)
   - **Tag**: Filter by tags
   - **Group**: Filter by category
5. Click on assets to select them (Ctrl+Click for multi-select)
6. Click "Import Selected" to import into your project

### Drag and Drop (Alternative Import)

The library supports drag-and-drop import. Simply drag assets from the library window to your Project window.

## Supported Asset Types

The tool automatically categorizes and handles:

- **Textures**: PNG, JPG, TGA, PSD, EXR, etc.
- **Prefabs**: `.prefab` files
- **Scripts**: C# MonoScripts
- **Materials**: `.mat` files
- **Shaders**: `.shader` files
- **Audio**: MP3, WAV, OGG, AIF files
- **Models**: FBX, OBJ, Blend files
- **Animations**: Animation clips and controllers
- **Other**: Any other Unity-compatible asset types

## Library File Format

Libraries are stored as `.unitylib` files (ZIP archives) with the following structure:

```
MyLibrary.unitylib
├── manifest.json          # Asset metadata and library info
├── assets/
│   ├── textures/          # Texture assets
│   ├── prefabs/           # Prefab assets
│   ├── scripts/           # Script assets
│   ├── materials/         # Material assets
│   └── ...other types
└── thumbnails/            # Custom thumbnail images
```

## Preferences

The tool stores the following preferences (accessible via `EditorPrefs`):

- `CPAM.LastLibraryPath`: Path to the last opened library
- `CPAM.DefaultImportPath`: Default folder for importing assets
- `CPAM.WindowPosition`: Window position and size

## Current Limitations

The current version (1.0.0) does NOT support:

- ❌ Cloud sync or remote storage
- ❌ Team collaboration features
- ❌ Asset versioning or update detection
- ❌ Automatic dependency tracking between assets
- ❌ Simultaneous multiple library support (single library open at a time)
- ❌ Library encryption or protection
- ❌ GUID preservation on import (new GUIDs assigned automatically)

## Technical Details

### Architecture

The package uses a modular architecture organized into four layers:

- **Data Layer**: `LibraryManifest`, `AssetMetadata` - Serializable data structures
- **Core Layer**: `UnityLibFileHandler`, `AssetLibraryLoader`, `LibraryWriter`, `AssetImporter`, `LibraryEditor` - Business logic and file operations
- **UI Layer**: `AssetLibraryWindow`, `AddAssetDialog`, `EditAssetMetadataDialog`, `AssetPropertiesDialog`, `AssetContextMenu`, `ContextMenuExtension`, `CreateNewLibraryDialog`, `DragAndDropHandler`, `AssetPreviewWindow` - Editor windows and dialogs
- **Utilities**: `LibraryUtilities` - Helper functions and common operations

### Building and Testing

The package includes an assembly definition (`com.crossproject.assetlibrary.asmdef`) that compiles the Editor scripts separately for better compilation times.

## Troubleshooting

### Library Won't Load

- Ensure the file has a `.unitylib` extension
- Check the Unity console for detailed error messages
- Try creating a new test library to verify the format

### Assets Won't Import

- Check that the import destination folder exists and is writable
- Verify the asset files exist in the library
- Review the Unity console for specific error messages

### Missing Thumbnails

- Image assets automatically use themselves as thumbnails
- For other asset types, provide a custom thumbnail when adding to the library
- If missing, a placeholder will be used

## Contributing

This is an open-source project. Feel free to:

- Report bugs and feature requests
- Submit improvements and bug fixes
- Share example libraries with the community

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE.md for details

## Support

For issues, questions, or suggestions, please refer to the project repository or contact the maintainers.

---

**Version**: 1.0.0
**Unity Version**: 2020.3 LTS and newer
**Platform Support**: Windows, macOS, Linux (Editor only)

Commit message:

Release v1.1.1: Debug logging control and file lock fixes

README.md, after:

# Cross Project Asset Library

A production-ready Unity Editor extension that provides a personal cross-project asset library, allowing developers to quickly import frequently used assets without manual folder navigation.

**Package ID**: `com.crossproject.assetlibrary`
**Version**: 1.1.1
**Minimum Unity**: 2020.3 LTS

## Core Features

### Asset Management
- **Add Assets**: Right-click any asset in Unity → "Add to Asset Library" with metadata (group, tags, description, custom thumbnails)
- **Browse Library**: Open library window (Window → Asset Library) to view all saved assets with color-coded type indicators
- **Multi-Select**: Ctrl+Click to select multiple assets for batch operations
- **Batch Import**: Import multiple selected assets in one operation
- **Batch Add**: Drag-and-drop multiple assets from Project window to library

### Search & Filtering
- **Name Search**: Real-time text search for assets (case-insensitive)
- **Type Filter**: Filter by asset type (Textures, Prefabs, Scripts, Materials, Audio, Models, Animations, Shaders, and more)
- **Tag Filter**: Filter by tags (supports multi-tag filtering)
- **Group Filter**: Organize and filter by category/group
- **Combined Filtering**: Use multiple filters simultaneously for precise asset discovery

### Asset Editing & Preview
- **Edit Metadata**: Modify asset properties (name, tags, group, description) directly within library
- **Asset Preview Window**:
  - Texture preview with zoom and rotation controls
  - Audio clip playback with visualization
  - 3D mesh preview with rotation/zoom
  - Text file preview with syntax highlighting
  - Metadata panel display
- **Asset Properties Dialog**: View complete asset information (ID, path, size, date added, etc.)
- **Context Menu Options**:
  - Open with system default application
  - Export asset to folder
  - Copy asset path to clipboard
  - Reveal library file in file explorer
  - Delete asset from library
  - Show properties

### Library Management
- **Create Libraries**: Create new .unitylib files via dialog wizard
- **Portable Format**: Libraries stored as `.unitylib` files (ZIP-based) for easy backup and sharing
- **Recent Libraries**: Quick-access to recently used libraries with metadata (asset count, last modified)
- **File System Monitoring**: Auto-reload detection when library files change externally
- **Library Validation**: Auto-validates paths, removes deleted libraries from history

### Import & Integration
- **Smart Import**: Import button with automatic destination folder selection
- **Drag-and-Drop Import**: Drag assets from library window directly into Project window
- **Duplicate Handling**: Automatically handles filename conflicts during import
- **Default Location**: Imports to `Assets/Imported/` folder (customizable)
- **Asset Database Integration**: Automatic refresh after import

## Installation

Choose one of the three installation methods:

### Method 1: Git URL (Recommended for Development)

Add to your Unity project's `Packages/manifest.json`:

**Latest version:**
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "com.crossproject.assetlibrary": "https://github.com/AFreoN/asset-library.git"
  }
}
```

**Specific version:**
```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "com.crossproject.assetlibrary": "https://github.com/AFreoN/asset-library.git#v1.0.0"
  }
}
```

### Method 2: Download and Extract

1. Go to [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/AFreoN/asset-library/releases)
2. Download the latest source code (ZIP)
3. Extract to your project's `Assets/Packages/com.crossproject.assetlibrary/` folder

### Method 3: Clone Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AFreoN/asset-library.git Assets/Packages/com.crossproject.assetlibrary
```

### After Installation

1. Restart Unity
2. Access the tool via `Window → Asset Library` menu
3. You're ready to start managing your asset library!

## Quick Start

### Creating a New Library

1. Go to `Window → Asset Library`
2. Click "Create New Library"
3. Enter a name and choose a save location
4. The library will be created as a `.unitylib` file

### Adding Assets to Your Library

1. In your Project window, right-click on any asset
2. Select "Add to Asset Library"
3. Fill in the metadata:
   - **Group/Category**: Organize assets logically (e.g., "UI Elements", "Player Systems")
   - **Tags**: Add comma-separated tags for easy filtering (e.g., "ui, pixel-art")
   - **Description**: Optional description for the asset
   - **Custom Thumbnail**: For non-image assets, optionally provide a preview image
4. Select the target library file
5. Click "Add to Library"

### Browsing and Importing Assets

1. Open `Window → Asset Library`
2. Click "Browse" and select a `.unitylib` file
3. Use the search bar to find assets by name
4. Filter by:
   - **Type**: Asset type (Texture, Prefab, Script, etc.)
   - **Tag**: Filter by tags
   - **Group**: Filter by category
5. Click on assets to select them (Ctrl+Click for multi-select)
6. Click "Import Selected" to import into your project

### Drag and Drop (Alternative Import)

The library supports drag-and-drop import. Simply drag assets from the library window to your Project window.

## Supported Asset Types

The tool automatically categorizes and handles:

- **Textures**: PNG, JPG, TGA, PSD, EXR, etc.
- **Prefabs**: `.prefab` files
- **Scripts**: C# MonoScripts
- **Materials**: `.mat` files
- **Shaders**: `.shader` files
- **Audio**: MP3, WAV, OGG, AIF files
- **Models**: FBX, OBJ, Blend files
- **Animations**: Animation clips and controllers
- **Other**: Any other Unity-compatible asset types

## Library File Format

Libraries are stored as `.unitylib` files (ZIP archives) with the following structure:

```
MyLibrary.unitylib
├── manifest.json          # Asset metadata and library info
├── assets/
│   ├── textures/          # Texture assets
│   ├── prefabs/           # Prefab assets
│   ├── scripts/           # Script assets
│   ├── materials/         # Material assets
│   └── ...other types
└── thumbnails/            # Custom thumbnail images
```

## Preferences & Settings

### UI Controls

The Asset Library window toolbar includes several toggles:

- **Auto Reload**: Automatically reload the library when external changes are detected
- **Debug Log**: Enable/disable debug logging output to the Unity console (disabled by default for production)

### EditorPrefs Keys

The tool stores the following preferences (accessible via `EditorPrefs`):

- `CPAL.LastLibraryPath`: Path to the last opened library
- `CPAL.DefaultImportPath`: Default folder for importing assets
- `CPAL.WindowPosition`: Window position and size
- `CPAL.AutoReload`: Auto-reload setting state
- `CPAL.DebugLoggingEnabled`: Debug logging toggle state
- `CPAM.RecentLibraries`: Recent libraries list for quick access

## Recent Improvements (v1.1.1)

- **File Lock Issues Fixed**: Resolved file locking problems when adding and deleting files from libraries
- **Debug Logging Control**: New toggle in the Asset Library window toolbar to enable/disable debug logging (disabled by default for clean production console)
- **Performance Optimizations**: Improved file handle management in ZIP operations with better resource cleanup

## Current Limitations

The current version (1.1.1) does NOT support:

- ❌ Cloud sync or remote storage
- ❌ Team collaboration features
- ❌ Asset versioning or update detection
- ❌ Automatic dependency tracking between assets
- ❌ Simultaneous multiple library support (single library open at a time)
- ❌ Library encryption or protection
- ❌ GUID preservation on import (new GUIDs assigned automatically)

## Technical Details

### Architecture

The package uses a modular architecture organized into four layers:

- **Data Layer**: `LibraryManifest`, `AssetMetadata` - Serializable data structures
- **Core Layer**: `UnityLibFileHandler`, `AssetLibraryLoader`, `LibraryWriter`, `AssetImporter`, `LibraryEditor` - Business logic and file operations
- **UI Layer**: `AssetLibraryWindow`, `AddAssetDialog`, `EditAssetMetadataDialog`, `AssetPropertiesDialog`, `AssetContextMenu`, `ContextMenuExtension`, `CreateNewLibraryDialog`, `DragAndDropHandler`, `AssetPreviewWindow` - Editor windows and dialogs
- **Utilities**: `LibraryUtilities` - Helper functions and common operations

### Building and Testing

The package includes an assembly definition (`com.crossproject.assetlibrary.asmdef`) that compiles the Editor scripts separately for better compilation times.

## Troubleshooting

### Library Won't Load

- Ensure the file has a `.unitylib` extension
- Check the Unity console for detailed error messages
- Try creating a new test library to verify the format

### Assets Won't Import

- Check that the import destination folder exists and is writable
- Verify the asset files exist in the library
- Review the Unity console for specific error messages

### Missing Thumbnails

- Image assets automatically use themselves as thumbnails
- For other asset types, provide a custom thumbnail when adding to the library
- If missing, a placeholder will be used

## Contributing

This is an open-source project. Feel free to:

- Report bugs and feature requests
- Submit improvements and bug fixes
- Share example libraries with the community

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE.md for details

## Support

For issues, questions, or suggestions, please refer to the project repository or contact the maintainers.

---

**Version**: 1.1.1
**Unity Version**: 2020.3 LTS and newer
**Platform Support**: Windows, macOS, Linux (Editor only)
